COMPANY: Google
TITLE: Data Integrity: Principles and Best Practices
URL: https://sre.google/sre-book/data-integrity/

Google SRE - Data Integrity: Principles and Best Practices Chapter 26 - Data Integrity: What You Read Is What You Wrote Table of Contents Foreword Preface Part I - Introduction 1. Introduction 2. The Production Environment at Google, from the Viewpoint of an SRE Part II - Principles 3. Embracing Risk 4. Service Level Objectives 5. Eliminating Toil 6. Monitoring Distributed Systems 7. The Evolution of Automation at Google 8. Release Engineering 9. Simplicity Part III - Practices 10. Practical Alerting 11. Being On-Call 12. Effective Troubleshooting 13. Emergency Response 14. Managing Incidents 15. Postmortem Culture: Learning from Failure 16. Tracking Outages 17. Testing for Reliability 18. Software Engineering in SRE 19. Load Balancing at the Frontend 20. Load Balancing in the Datacenter 21. Handling Overload 22. Addressing Cascading Failures 23. Managing Critical State: Distributed Consensus for Reliability 24. Distributed Periodic Scheduling with Cron 25. Data Processing Pipelines 26. Data Integrity: What You Read Is What You Wrote 27. Reliable Product Launches at Scale Part IV - Management 28. Accelerating SREs to On-Call and Beyond 29. Dealing with Interrupts 30. Embedding an SRE to Recover from Operational Overload 31. Communication and Collaboration in SRE 32. The Evolving SRE Engagement Model Part V - Conclusions 33. Lessons Learned from Other Industries 34. Conclusion Appendix A. Availability Table Appendix B. A Collection of Best Practices for Production Services Appendix C. Example Incident State Document Appendix D. Example Postmortem Appendix E. Launch Coordination Checklist Appendix F. Example Production Meeting Minutes Bibliography Data Integrity: What You Read Is What You Wrote Written by Raymond Blum and Rhandeev Singh Edited by Betsy Beyer What is "data integrity"? When users come first, data integrity is whatever users think it is. We might say data integrity is a measure of the accessibility and accuracy of the datastores needed to provide users with an adequate level of service . But this definition is insufficient. For instance, if a user interface bug in Gmail displays an empty mailbox for too long, users might believe data has been lost. Thus, even if no data was actually lost, the world would question Google’s ability to act as a responsible steward of data, and the viability of cloud computing would be threatened. Were Gmail to display an error or maintenance message for too long while "only a bit of metadata" is repaired, the trust of Google’s users would similarly erode. How long is "too long" for data to be unavailable? As demonstrated by an actual Gmail incident in 2011 [Hic11] , four days is a long time—perhaps "too long." Subsequently, we believe 24 hours is a good starting point for establishing the threshold of "too long" for Google Apps. Similar reasoning applies to applications like Google Photos, Drive, Cloud Storage, and Cloud Datastore, because users don’t necessarily draw a distinction between these discrete products (reasoning, "this product is still Google" or "Google, Amazon, whatever; this product is still part of the cloud"). Data loss, data corruption, and extended unavailability are typically indistinguishable to users. Therefore, data integrity applies to all types of data across all services. When considering data integrity, what matters is that services in the cloud remain accessible to users. User access to data is especially important . Data Integrity’s Strict Requirements When considering the reliability needs of a given system, it may seem that uptime (service availability) needs are stricter than those of data integrity. For example, users may find an hour of email downtime unacceptable, whereas they may live grumpily with a four-day time window to recover a mailbox. However, there’s a more appropriate way to consider the demands of uptime versus data integrity. An SLO of 99.99% uptime leaves room for only an hour of downtime in a whole year. This SLO sets a rather high bar, which likely exceeds the expectations of most Internet and Enterprise users. In contrast, an SLO of 99.99% good bytes in a 2 GB artifact would render documents, executables, and databases corrupt (up to 200 KB garbled). This amount of corruption is catastrophic in the majority of cases—resulting in executables with random opcodes and completely unloadable databases. From the user perspective, then, every service has independent uptime and data integrity requirements, even if these requirements are implicit. The worst time to disagree with users about these requirements is after the demise of their data! Figure 26-1. To revise our earlier definition of data integrity, we might say that data integrity means that services in the cloud remain accessible to users. User access to data is especially important, so this access should remain in perfect shape . Now, suppose an artifact were corrupted or lost exactly once a year. If the loss were unrecoverable, uptime of the affected artifact is lost for that year. The most likely means to avoid any such loss is through proactive detection, coupled with rapid repair. In an alternate universe, suppose the corruption were immediately detected before users were affected and that the artifact was removed, fixed, and returned to service within half an hour. Ignoring any other downtime during that 30 minutes, such an object would be 99.99% available that year. Astonishingly, at least from the user perspective, in this scenario, data integrity is still 100% (or close to 100%) during the accessible lifetime of the object. As demonstrated by this example, the secret to superior data integrity is proactive detection and rapid repair and recovery. Choosing a Strategy for Superior Data Integrity There are many possible strategies for rapid detection, repair, and recovery of lost data. All of these strategies trade uptime against data integrity with respect to affected users. Some strategies work better than others, and some strategies require more complex engineering investment than others. With so many options available, which strategies should you utilize? The answer depends on your computing paradigm. Most cloud computing applications seek to optimize for some combination of uptime, latency, scale, velocity, and privacy. To provide a working definition for each of these terms: Uptime Also referred to as availability , the proportion of time a service is usable by its users. Latency How responsive a service appears to its users. Scale A service’s volume of users and the mixture of workloads the service can handle before latency suffers or the service falls apart. Velocity How fast a service can innovate to provide users with superior value at reasonable cost. Privacy This concept imposes complex requirements. As a simplification, this chapter limits its scope in discussing privacy to data deletion: data must be destroyed within a reasonable time after users delete it. Many cloud applications continually evolve atop a mixture of ACID 122 and BASE 123 APIs to meet the demands of these five components. 124 BASE allows for higher availability than ACID, in exchange for a softer distributed consistency guarantee. Specifically, BASE only guarantees that once a piece of data is no longer updated, its value will eventually become consistent across (potentially distributed) storage locations. The following scenario provides an example of how trade-offs between uptime, latency, scale, velocity, and privacy might play out. When velocity trumps other requirements, the resulting applications rely on an arbitrary collection of APIs that are most familiar to the particular developers working on the application. For example, an application may take advantage of an efficient BLOB 125 storage API, such as Blobstore, that neglects distributed consistency in favor of scaling to heavy workloads with high uptime, low latency, and at low cost. To compensate: The same application may entrust small amounts of authoritative metadata pertaining to its blobs to a higher latency, less available, more costly Paxos-based service such as Megastore [Bak11] , [Lam98] . Certain clients of the application may cache some of that metadata locally and access blobs directly, shaving latency still further from the vantage point of users. Another application may keep metadata in Bigtable, sacrificing strong distributed consistency because its developers happened to be familiar with Bigtable. Such cloud applications face a variety of data integrity challenges at runtime, such as referential integrity between datastores (in the preceding example, Blobstore, Megastore, and client-side caches). The vagaries of high velocity dictate that schema changes, data migrations, the piling of new features atop old features, rewrites, and evolving integration points with other applications collude to produce an environment riddled with complex relationships between various pieces of data that no single engineer fully groks. To preve
