COMPANY: Google
TITLE: Handling Overload (client-side throttling / load shedding)
URL: https://sre.google/sre-book/handling-overload/

Google SRE: Load Balancing with Client Side Throttling Chapter 21 - Handling Overload Table of Contents Foreword Preface Part I - Introduction 1. Introduction 2. The Production Environment at Google, from the Viewpoint of an SRE Part II - Principles 3. Embracing Risk 4. Service Level Objectives 5. Eliminating Toil 6. Monitoring Distributed Systems 7. The Evolution of Automation at Google 8. Release Engineering 9. Simplicity Part III - Practices 10. Practical Alerting 11. Being On-Call 12. Effective Troubleshooting 13. Emergency Response 14. Managing Incidents 15. Postmortem Culture: Learning from Failure 16. Tracking Outages 17. Testing for Reliability 18. Software Engineering in SRE 19. Load Balancing at the Frontend 20. Load Balancing in the Datacenter 21. Handling Overload 22. Addressing Cascading Failures 23. Managing Critical State: Distributed Consensus for Reliability 24. Distributed Periodic Scheduling with Cron 25. Data Processing Pipelines 26. Data Integrity: What You Read Is What You Wrote 27. Reliable Product Launches at Scale Part IV - Management 28. Accelerating SREs to On-Call and Beyond 29. Dealing with Interrupts 30. Embedding an SRE to Recover from Operational Overload 31. Communication and Collaboration in SRE 32. The Evolving SRE Engagement Model Part V - Conclusions 33. Lessons Learned from Other Industries 34. Conclusion Appendix A. Availability Table Appendix B. A Collection of Best Practices for Production Services Appendix C. Example Incident State Document Appendix D. Example Postmortem Appendix E. Launch Coordination Checklist Appendix F. Example Production Meeting Minutes Bibliography Handling Overload Written by Alejandro Forero Cuervo Edited by Sarah Chavis Avoiding overload is a goal of load balancing policies. But no matter how efficient your load balancing policy, eventually some part of your system will become overloaded. Gracefully handling overload conditions is fundamental to running a reliable serving system. One option for handling overload is to serve degraded responses: responses that are not as accurate as or that contain less data than normal responses, but that are easier to compute. For example: Instead of searching an entire corpus to provide the best available results to a search query, search only a small percentage of the candidate set. Rely on a local copy of results that may not be fully up to date but that will be cheaper to use than going against the canonical storage. However, under extreme overload, the service might not even be able to compute and serve degraded responses. At this point it may have no immediate option but to serve errors. One way to mitigate this scenario is to balance traffic across datacenters such that no datacenter receives more traffic than it has the capacity to process. For example, if a datacenter runs 100 backend tasks and each task can process up to 500 requests per second, the load balancing algorithm will not allow more than 50,000 queries per second to be sent to that datacenter. However, even this constraint can prove insufficient to avoid overload when you're operating at scale. At the end of the day, it's best to build clients and backends to handle resource restrictions gracefully: redirect when possible, serve degraded results when necessary, and handle resource errors transparently when all else fails. The Pitfalls of "Queries per Second" Different queries can have vastly different resource requirements. A query's cost can vary based on arbitrary factors such as the code in the client that issues them (for services that have many different clients) or even the time of the day (e.g., home users versus work users; or interactive end-user traffic versus batch traffic). We learned this lesson the hard way: modeling capacity as "queries per second" or using static features of the requests that are believed to be a proxy for the resources they consume (e.g., "how many keys are the requests reading") often makes for a poor metric. Even if these metrics perform adequately at one point in time, the ratios can change. Sometimes the change is gradual, but sometimes the change is drastic (e.g., a new version of the software suddenly made some features of some requests require significantly fewer resources). A moving target makes a poor metric for designing and implementing load balancing. A better solution is to measure capacity directly in available resources. For example, you may have a total of 500 CPU cores and 1 TB of memory reserved for a given service in a given datacenter. Naturally, it works much better to use those numbers directly to model a datacenter's capacity. We often speak about the cost of a request to refer to a normalized measure of how much CPU time it has consumed (over different CPU architectures, with consideration of performance differences). In a majority of cases (although certainly not in all), we've found that simply using CPU consumption as the signal for provisioning works well, for the following reasons: In platforms with garbage collection, memory pressure naturally translates into increased CPU consumption. In other platforms, it's possible to provision the remaining resources in such a way that they're very unlikely to run out before CPU runs out. In cases where over-provisioning the non-CPU resources is prohibitively expensive, we take each system resource into account separately when considering resource consumption. Per-Customer Limits One component of dealing with overload is deciding what to do in the case of global overload. In a perfect world, where teams coordinate their launches carefully with the owners of their backend dependencies, global overload never happens and backend services always have enough capacity to serve their customers. Unfortunately, we don't live in a perfect world. Here in reality, global overload occurs quite frequently (especially for internal services that tend to have many clients run by many teams). When global overload does occur, it's vital that the service only delivers error responses to misbehaving customers, while other customers remain unaffected. To achieve this outcome, service owners provision their capacity based on the negotiated usage with their customers and define per-customer quotas according to these agreements. For example, if a backend service has 10,000 CPUs allocated worldwide (over various datacenters), their per-customer limits might look something like the following: Gmail is allowed to consume up to 4,000 CPU seconds per second. Calendar is allowed to consume up to 4,000 CPU seconds per second. Android is allowed to consume up to 3,000 CPU seconds per second. Google+ is allowed to consume up to 2,000 CPU seconds per second. Every other user is allowed to consume up to 500 CPU seconds per second. Note that these numbers may add up to more than the 10,000 CPUs allocated to the backend service. The service owner is relying on the fact that it's unlikely for all of their customers to hit their resource limits simultaneously. We aggregate global usage information in real time from all backend tasks, and use that data to push effective limits to individual backend tasks. A closer look at the system that implements this logic is outside of the scope of this discussion, but we've written significant code to implement this in our backend tasks. An interesting part of the puzzle is computing in real time the amount of resources—specifically CPU—consumed by each individual request. This computation is particularly tricky for servers that don't implement a thread-per-request model, where a pool of threads just executes different parts of all requests as they come in, using nonblocking APIs. Client-Side Throttling When a customer is out of quota, a backend task should reject requests quickly with the expectation that returning a "customer is out of quota" error consumes significantly fewer resources than actually processing the request and serving back a correct response. However, this logic doesn't hold true for all services. For example, it's almost equally expensive to reject a request that requires a simple RAM lookup (where the overhead of the request/response protocol handling is significantly larger than the overhead of producing the response) as it is to accept and run that request. And even in the case where rejecting requests saves significant resources, those requests still consume some resources. If the amount of rejected requests is significant, these numbers add up quickly. In such cases, the backend can become overloaded even though the vast majority of its CPU is spent just rejecting requests! Client-side throttling addresses this problem. 106 When a client detects that a significant portion of its recent requests have been rejected due to "out of quota" errors, it starts self-regulating and caps the amount of outgoing traffic it generates. Requests above the cap fail locally without even reaching the network. We implemented client-side throttling throug
