COMPANY: Google
TITLE: Monitoring Distributed Systems (golden signals)
URL: https://sre.google/sre-book/monitoring-distributed-systems/

Google SRE monitoring ditributed system - sre golden signals Chapter 6 - Monitoring Distributed Systems Table of Contents Foreword Preface Part I - Introduction 1. Introduction 2. The Production Environment at Google, from the Viewpoint of an SRE Part II - Principles 3. Embracing Risk 4. Service Level Objectives 5. Eliminating Toil 6. Monitoring Distributed Systems 7. The Evolution of Automation at Google 8. Release Engineering 9. Simplicity Part III - Practices 10. Practical Alerting 11. Being On-Call 12. Effective Troubleshooting 13. Emergency Response 14. Managing Incidents 15. Postmortem Culture: Learning from Failure 16. Tracking Outages 17. Testing for Reliability 18. Software Engineering in SRE 19. Load Balancing at the Frontend 20. Load Balancing in the Datacenter 21. Handling Overload 22. Addressing Cascading Failures 23. Managing Critical State: Distributed Consensus for Reliability 24. Distributed Periodic Scheduling with Cron 25. Data Processing Pipelines 26. Data Integrity: What You Read Is What You Wrote 27. Reliable Product Launches at Scale Part IV - Management 28. Accelerating SREs to On-Call and Beyond 29. Dealing with Interrupts 30. Embedding an SRE to Recover from Operational Overload 31. Communication and Collaboration in SRE 32. The Evolving SRE Engagement Model Part V - Conclusions 33. Lessons Learned from Other Industries 34. Conclusion Appendix A. Availability Table Appendix B. A Collection of Best Practices for Production Services Appendix C. Example Incident State Document Appendix D. Example Postmortem Appendix E. Launch Coordination Checklist Appendix F. Example Production Meeting Minutes Bibliography Monitoring Distributed Systems Written by Rob Ewaschuk Edited by Betsy Beyer Google’s SRE teams have some basic principles and best practices for building successful monitoring and alerting systems. This chapter offers guidelines for what issues should interrupt a human via a page, and how to deal with issues that aren’t serious enough to trigger a page. Definitions There’s no uniformly shared vocabulary for discussing all topics related to monitoring. Even within Google, usage of the following terms varies, but the most common interpretations are listed here. Monitoring Collecting, processing, aggregating, and displaying real-time quantitative data about a system, such as query counts and types, error counts and types, processing times, and server lifetimes. White-box monitoring Monitoring based on metrics exposed by the internals of the system, including logs, interfaces like the Java Virtual Machine Profiling Interface, or an HTTP handler that emits internal statistics. Black-box monitoring Testing externally visible behavior as a user would see it. Dashboard An application (usually web-based) that provides a summary view of a service’s core metrics. A dashboard may have filters, selectors, and so on, but is prebuilt to expose the metrics most important to its users. The dashboard might also display team information such as ticket queue length, a list of high-priority bugs, the current on-call engineer for a given area of responsibility, or recent pushes. Alert A notification intended to be read by a human and that is pushed to a system such as a bug or ticket queue, an email alias, or a pager. Respectively, these alerts are classified as tickets , email alerts , 22 and pages . Root cause A defect in a software or human system that, if repaired, instills confidence that this event won’t happen again in the same way. A given incident might have multiple root causes: for example, perhaps it was caused by a combination of insufficient process automation, software that crashed on bogus input, and insufficient testing of the script used to generate the configuration. Each of these factors might stand alone as a root cause, and each should be repaired. Node and machine Used interchangeably to indicate a single instance of a running kernel in either a physical server, virtual machine, or container. There might be multiple services worth monitoring on a single machine. The services may either be: Related to each other: for example, a caching server and a web server Unrelated services sharing hardware: for example, a code repository and a master for a configuration system like Puppet or Chef Push Any change to a service’s running software or its configuration. Why Monitor? There are many reasons to monitor a system, including: Analyzing long-term trends How big is my database and how fast is it growing? How quickly is my daily-active user count growing? Comparing over time or experiment groups Are queries faster with Acme Bucket of Bytes 2.72 versus Ajax DB 3.14? How much better is my memcache hit rate with an extra node? Is my site slower than it was last week? Alerting Something is broken, and somebody needs to fix it right now! Or, something might break soon, so somebody should look soon. Building dashboards Dashboards should answer basic questions about your service, and normally include some form of the four golden signals (discussed in The Four Golden Signals ). Conducting ad hoc retrospective analysis (i.e., debugging) Our latency just shot up; what else happened around the same time? System monitoring is also helpful in supplying raw input into business analytics and in facilitating analysis of security breaches. Because this book focuses on the engineering domains in which SRE has particular expertise, we won’t discuss these applications of monitoring here. Monitoring and alerting enables a system to tell us when it’s broken, or perhaps to tell us what’s about to break. When the system isn’t able to automatically fix itself, we want a human to investigate the alert, determine if there’s a real problem at hand, mitigate the problem, and determine the root cause of the problem. Unless you’re performing security auditing on very narrowly scoped components of a system, you should never trigger an alert simply because "something seems a bit weird." Paging a human is a quite expensive use of an employee’s time. If an employee is at work, a page interrupts their workflow. If the employee is at home, a page interrupts their personal time, and perhaps even their sleep. When pages occur too frequently, employees second-guess, skim, or even ignore incoming alerts, sometimes even ignoring a "real" page that’s masked by the noise. Outages can be prolonged because other noise interferes with a rapid diagnosis and fix. Effective alerting systems have good signal and very low noise. Setting Reasonable Expectations for Monitoring Monitoring a complex application is a significant engineering endeavor in and of itself. Even with substantial existing infrastructure for instrumentation, collection, display, and alerting in place, a Google SRE team with 10–12 members typically has one or sometimes two members whose primary assignment is to build and maintain monitoring systems for their service. This number has decreased over time as we generalize and centralize common monitoring infrastructure, but every SRE team typically has at least one “monitoring person.” (That being said, while it can be fun to have access to traffic graph dashboards and the like, SRE teams carefully avoid any situation that requires someone to “stare at a screen to watch for problems.”) In general, Google has trended toward simpler and faster monitoring systems, with better tools for post hoc analysis. We avoid "magic" systems that try to learn thresholds or automatically detect causality. Rules that detect unexpected changes in end-user request rates are one counterexample; while these rules are still kept as simple as possible, they give a very quick detection of a very simple, specific, severe anomaly. Other uses of monitoring data such as capacity planning and traffic prediction can tolerate more fragility, and thus, more complexity. Observational experiments conducted over a very long time horizon (months or years) with a low sampling rate (hours or days) can also often tolerate more fragility because occasional missed samples won’t hide a long-running trend. Google SRE has experienced only limited success with complex dependency hierarchies. We seldom use rules such as, "If I know the database is slow, alert for a slow database; otherwise, alert for the website being generally slow." Dependency-reliant rules usually pertain to very stable parts of our system, such as our system for draining user traffic away from a datacenter. For example, "If a datacenter is drained, then don’t alert me on its latency" is one common datacenter alerting rule. Few teams at Google maintain complex dependency hierarchies because our infrastructure has a steady rate of continuous refactoring. Some of the ideas described in this chapter are still aspirational: there is always room to move more rapidly from symptom to root cause(s), especially in ever-changing systems. So while this chapter sets out some goals for monitoring systems, and some ways to achieve these
