COMPANY: Stripe
TITLE: Online migrations at scale
URL: https://stripe.com/blog/online-migrations

Chat with Stripe sales 8 sales reps available We're here to discuss your business needs. Chat now with sales Online migrations at scale Stripe logo Products Solutions Developers Resources Pricing Dashboard Sign in Sign in Contact sales Stripe logo Back Products Solutions Developers Resources Pricing Dashboard Sign in Sign in Payments Payments Online payments Managed Payments Merchant of record solution Payment links No-code payments Checkout Prebuilt payment UIs Elements Flexible UI components Payment methods Access to 125+ Terminal In-person payments Authorization Boost Acceptance optimizations Link Accelerated checkout Financial Connections Linked financial account data Revenue Billing Recurring revenue Metronome Usage-based billing Subscriptions Subscription management Invoicing One-time or recurring Tax Sales tax VAT automation Revenue Recognition Accounting automation Stripe Sigma Custom reports Data Pipeline Data sync Money management Treasury Business finances Global Payouts Payouts to third parties Capital Business financing Crypto Wallet, stablecoin issuing, and card infrastructure Crypto Onramp Embeddable crypto purchases Platforms and marketplaces Connect Payments for platforms Capital for platforms Customer financing Treasury for platforms Embedded financial services Issuing Physical and virtual cards More Product roadmap See what’s ahead Radar Fraud prevention Atlas Startup incorporation Climate Carbon removal Identity Online identity verification Stripe Sessions 2026 See how Stripe is building the economic infrastructure for AI. Watch now By stage Enterprises Startups By use case Agentic commerce Crypto Ecommerce Embedded finance Finance automation Global businesses In-app payments Marketplaces Money management Platforms SaaS By industry AI companies Creator economy Gaming Hospitality, travel, and leisure Insurance Media and entertainment Nonprofits Professional services Retail Ecosystem Partners Stripe App Marketplace Documentation Stripe docs API reference Libraries and SDKs Stripe Apps Guides Accept online payments Implement a prebuilt checkout Build a platform or marketplace Manage subscriptions Offer usage-based billing Issue stablecoin-backed cards Provision and manage services with agents Resources App integrations Code samples Developers blog API status Learn Blog Customer stories Guides Support Get support Managed support plans Professional services Company Product roadmap Sessions annual conference Careers Newsroom Stripe Press Contact Contact sales Become a partner Start now Contact sales Payments Payments Online payments Managed Payments Merchant of record solution Payment links No-code payments Checkout Prebuilt payment UIs Elements Flexible UI components Payment methods Access to 125+ Terminal In-person payments Authorization Boost Acceptance optimizations Link Accelerated checkout Financial Connections Linked financial account data Revenue Billing Recurring revenue Metronome Usage-based billing Subscriptions Subscription management Invoicing One-time or recurring Tax Sales tax VAT automation Revenue Recognition Accounting automation Stripe Sigma Custom reports Data Pipeline Data sync Money management Treasury Business finances Global Payouts Payouts to third parties Capital Business financing Crypto Wallet, stablecoin issuing, and card infrastructure Crypto Onramp Embeddable crypto purchases Platforms and marketplaces Connect Payments for platforms Capital for platforms Customer financing Treasury for platforms Embedded financial services Issuing Physical and virtual cards More Product roadmap See what’s ahead Radar Fraud prevention Atlas Startup incorporation Climate Carbon removal Identity Online identity verification Stripe Sessions 2026 See how Stripe is building the economic infrastructure for AI. Watch now By stage Enterprises Startups By use case Agentic commerce Crypto Ecommerce Embedded finance Finance automation Global businesses In-app payments Marketplaces Money management Platforms SaaS By industry AI companies Creator economy Gaming Hospitality, travel, and leisure Insurance Media and entertainment Nonprofits Professional services Public sector Retail Ecosystem Partners Stripe App Marketplace Documentation Stripe docs API reference Libraries and SDKs Stripe Apps Guides Accept online payments Implement a prebuilt checkout Build a platform or marketplace Manage subscriptions Offer usage-based billing Issue stablecoin-backed cards Provision and manage services with agents Resources App integrations Code samples Developers blog API status Learn Blog Customer stories Guides Support Get support Managed support plans Professional services Company Product roadmap Sessions annual conference Careers Newsroom Stripe Press Contact Contact sales Become a partner Blog Engineering Stripe on X Online migrations at scale February 2, 2017 Jacqueline Xu Atlas Engineering teams face a common challenge when building software: they eventually need to redesign the data models they use to support clean abstractions and more complex features. In production environments, this might mean migrating millions of active objects and refactoring thousands of lines of code. Stripe users expect availability and consistency from our API. This means that when we do migrations, we need to be extra careful: objects stored in our systems need to have accurate values, and Stripe’s services need to remain available at all times. In this post, we’ll explain how we safely did one large migration of our hundreds of millions of Subscriptions objects. Why are migrations hard? Scale Stripe has hundreds of millions of Subscriptions objects. Running a large migration that touches all of those objects is a lot of work for our production database. Imagine that it takes one second to migrate each subscription object: in sequential fashion, it would take over three years to migrate one hundred million objects. Uptime Businesses are constantly transacting on Stripe. We perform all infrastructure upgrades online, rather than relying on planned maintenance windows. Because we couldn’t simply pause the Subscriptions service during migrations, we had to execute the transition with all of our services operating at 100%. Accuracy Our Subscriptions table is used in many different places in our codebase. If we tried to change thousands of lines of code across the Subscriptions service at once, we would almost certainly overlook some edge cases. We needed to be sure that every service could continue to rely on accurate data. A pattern for online migrations Moving millions of objects from one database table to another is difficult, but it’s something that many companies need to do. There’s a common 4 step dual writing pattern that people often use to do large online migrations like this. Here’s how it works: Dual writing to the existing and new tables to keep them in sync. Changing all read paths in our codebase to read from the new table. Changing all write paths in our codebase to only write to the new table. Removing old data that relies on the outdated data model. Our example migration: Subscriptions What are Subscriptions and why did we need to do a migration? Stripe Billing helps users like DigitalOcean and Squarespace build and manage recurring billing for their customers. Over the past few years, we’ve steadily added features to support their more complex billing models, such as multiple subscriptions, trials, coupons, and invoices. In the early days, each Customer object had, at most, one subscription. Our customers were stored as individual records. Since the mapping of customers to subscriptions was straightforward, subscriptions were stored alongside customers. class Customer Subscription subscription end ~ Eventually, we realized that some users wanted to create customers with multiple subscriptions. We decided to transform the subscription field (for a single subscription) to a subscriptions field mdash;allowing us to store an array of multiple active subscriptions. class Customer array: Subscription subscriptions end ~ As we added new features, this data model became problematic. Any changes to a customer’s subscriptions meant updating the entire Customer record, and subscriptions-related queries scanning through customer objects. So we decided to store active subscriptions separately. Our redesigned data model moves subscriptions into their own table. As a reminder, our four migration phases were: Dual writing to the existing and new tables to keep them in sync. Changing all read paths in our codebase to read from the new table. Changing all write paths in our codebase to only write to the new table. Removing old data that relies on the outdated data model. Let’s walk through these four phases looked like for us in practice. Part 1: Dual writing We begin the migration by creating a new database table. The first step is to start duplicating new information so that it’s written to both stores. We’ll then backfill missing data to the new
