COMPANY: Google
TITLE: The Tail at Scale
URL: https://research.google/pubs/the-tail-at-scale/

The Tail at Scale Skip to main content Explore our many areas of focus Explore all research areas Applied AI sciences Earth AI Health AI Science AI Sustainability crisis resilience Foundational ML algorithms Algorithms theory Information retrieval Machine intelligence Machine perception Natural language processing People, systems quantum AI Human-computer interaction and visualization Networking Quantum AI Responsible AI Anti abuse Software engineering Software systems Learn More Publications Projects Building a collaborative ecosystem Datasets Access high-quality datasets to accelerate your research. Tools services Explore our latest AI models and products. Open source Discover open-source code and collaborate with the community. Shaping the future together See all programs Faculty programs Participating in the academic research community through meaningful engagement with university faculty. Student programs Supporting the next generation of researchers through a wide range of programming. R D programs Collaborating with industry and academic experts to support foundational science and innovation. Locations Find your place in our global offices and research labs. Translating discovery into real-world impact People Our researchers drive advancements in computer science through both fundamental and applied research. Teams Collaborative groups tackling the world&#x27;s most challenging AI problems. Research Explore our many areas of focus Explore all research areas Applied AI sciences Earth AI Health AI Science AI Sustainability crisis resilience Foundational ML algorithms Algorithms theory Information retrieval Machine intelligence Machine perception Natural language processing People, systems quantum AI Human-computer interaction and visualization Networking Quantum AI Responsible AI Anti abuse Software engineering Software systems Learn More Publications Projects Resources Building a collaborative ecosystem Datasets Access high-quality datasets to accelerate your research. Tools services Explore our latest AI models and products. Open source Discover open-source code and collaborate with the community. Conferences events Careers Shaping the future together See all programs Faculty programs Participating in the academic research community through meaningful engagement with university faculty. Student programs Supporting the next generation of researchers through a wide range of programming. R D programs Collaborating with industry and academic experts to support foundational science and innovation. Locations Find your place in our global offices and research labs. Blog About Translating discovery into real-world impact People Our researchers drive advancements in computer science through both fundamental and applied research. Teams Collaborative groups tackling the world&#x27;s most challenging AI problems. Google Research Google AI Learn about all our AI Google DeepMind Explore the frontier of AI Google Labs Try our AI experiments Research Resources Conferences events Careers Blog About Search Home Publications The Tail at Scale Jeffrey Dean Luiz André Barroso Communications of the ACM, 56 (2013), pp. 74-80 Download Google Scholar Copy Bibtex Abstract Systems that respond to user actions very quickly (within 100 milliseconds) feel more fluid and natural to users than those that take longer [Card et al 1991]. Improvements in Internet connectivity and the rise of warehouse-scale computing systems [Barroso Hoelzle 2009] have enabled Web services that provide fluid responsiveness while consulting multi-terabyte datasets that span thousands of servers. For example, the Google search system now updates query results interactively as the user types, predicting the most likely query based on the prefix typed so far, performing the search, and showing the results within a few tens of milliseconds. Emerging augmented reality devices such as the Google Glass prototype will need associated Web services with even greater computational needs while guaranteeing seamless interactivity. It is challenging to keep the tail of the latency distribution low for interactive services as the size and complexity of the system scales up or as overall utilization increases. Temporary high latency episodes which are unimportant in moderate size systems may come to dominate overall service performance at large scale. Just as fault-tolerant computing aims to create a reliable whole out of less reliable parts, we suggest that large online services need to create a predictably responsive whole out of less predictable parts. We refer to such systems as latency tail-tolerant, or tail-tolerant for brevity. This article outlines some of the common causes of high latency episodes in large online services and describes techniques that reduce their severity or mitigate their impact in whole system performance. In many cases, tail-tolerant techniques can take advantage of resources already deployed to achieve fault-tolerance, resulting in low additional overheads. We show that these techniques allow system utilization to be driven higher without lengthening the latency tail, avoiding wasteful over-provisioning. Meet the teams driving innovation Our teams advance the state of the art through research, systems engineering, and collaboration across Google. See our teams Follow us Explore our other initiatives Google AI Discover how Google AI is committed to enriching knowledge and solving complex challenges Products Build Research Responsibility Societal Impact About Google Cloud High-performance infrastructure for cloud computing, data analytics machine learning Overview Solutions Products Pricing Resources Google DeepMind Our mission is to build AI responsibly to benefit humanity Models Research Science About Google Labs Explore the future of AI responsibly with Google Labs About Experiments Stay connected About Google Google Products Privacy Terms Cookies management controls
